content/topics/Automation/automation-tools/airbnb-workflow/exporting_data.md, before:

---
# tutorialtitle: "Inside AirBnB - Workflow Walkthrough"
type: "airbnb-workflow"
indexexclude: "true"
weight: 40
title: "Exporting the Data"
date: 2021-01-06T22:01:14+05:30
draft: false
---

# Exporting Data
Finally, it's time to turn our generated files into plots which we can use for our analysis. First, we create the R scripts to create the plots. Second, we automate the entire pipeline using `make`.


**plot_all.R**  
A time-series plot that shows the total number of reviews over time (across all neighborhoods). Add a plot title and axes labels to make your graph easier to read. Store it as `plot_all.pdf` in `gen/plots` (don't forget to add a `plots` folder in `gen`!).

* Import the data from `gen/data-preparation/aggregated_df.csv`
* Convert the `date` column into date format.
* Group by date and calculate the sum of all reviews across neighborhoods.
* Plot the chart and store the visualisation.

![](../images/plot_all.png)

**plot_Amsterdam.R**  
A time-series plot that shows the total number of reviews over time for the top 3 neighborhoods (Centrum-West, De Pijp - Rivierenbuurt, and De Baarsjes - Oud-West). Add a plot title, axes labels, and a legend to make your graph easier to read. Store it as `plot_Amsterdam.pdf` in `gen/plots`.

* Import the data from `gen/data-preparation/pivot_table.csv`
* Convert the `date` column into date format.
* Plot the chart and store the visualisation.

![](../images/plot_Amsterdam.png)

Commit message:

Add necessary fields under airbnb-workflow directory

content/topics/Automation/automation-tools/airbnb-workflow/exporting_data.md, after:

---
title: "Exporting the Data"
type: "airbnb-workflow"
indexexclude: "true"
weight: 40
description: "Exporting and exploring the data"
date: 2021-01-06T22:01:14+05:30
draft: false
keywords: "exporting, data, plot"
---

# Exporting Data
Finally, it's time to turn our generated files into plots which we can use for our analysis. First, we create the R scripts to create the plots. Second, we automate the entire pipeline using `make`.

**plot_all.R**  
A time-series plot that shows the total number of reviews over time (across all neighborhoods). Add a plot title and axes labels to make your graph easier to read. Store it as `plot_all.pdf` in `gen/plots` (don't forget to add a `plots` folder in `gen`!).

* Import the data from `gen/data-preparation/aggregated_df.csv`
* Convert the `date` column into date format.
* Group by date and calculate the sum of all reviews across neighborhoods.
* Plot the chart and store the visualisation.

![](../images/plot_all.png)

**plot_Amsterdam.R**  
A time-series plot that shows the total number of reviews over time for the top 3 neighborhoods (Centrum-West, De Pijp - Rivierenbuurt, and De Baarsjes - Oud-West). Add a plot title, axes labels, and a legend to make your graph easier to read. Store it as `plot_Amsterdam.pdf` in `gen/plots`.

* Import the data from `gen/data-preparation/pivot_table.csv`
* Convert the `date` column into date format.
* Plot the chart and store the visualisation.

![](../images/plot_Amsterdam.png)
